Executed commands 

1. Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://httpbin.org/get -Verbose

2.Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://httpbin.org/post" ` 
-Method Post ` 
-ContentType "application/x-www-form-urlencoded" ` 
-Body "key=value" 

3. Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://httpbin.org/status/404 -Method Head 
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri https://httpbin.org/status/403 -Method Head

Observations

1.1 Request headers:
"Host": "httpbin.org"
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Length: 301

1.2 Response headers:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Fri, 07 Nov 2025 16:06:48 GM...

1.3 Status Code:
200

1.4 Connection workflow:
First, a user gives a client a URL, and the client builds a request for information (or 
resources) to be generated by a server. The request is sent from the client to the 
server. When the server receives that request, it uses the information included in 
the request to build a response that contains the requested information. Once 
created, that response is sent back to the client in the requested format to be 
rendered to the user.


2.1 Compare how POST behaves differently from GET:
POST 
Server error codes indicating that the request was accepted, but that 
an error on the server prevented the fulfilment of the request. 
GET
Success codes returned when the browser request was received, 
understood, and processed by the server. 

2.2 Explain the purpose of the payload (key=value) and how it’s 
transmitted:
The payload (key=value) carries the data part of a request, and 
it’s transmitted via the HTTP protocol, either in the URL (for GET) 
or in the request body (for POST/PUT/etc.).

2.3 Document the response body and note how the server reflects your 
data:
The server successfully received the key=value payload from the
POST request and reflected it back in the "form" section of the response, 
confirming that the data was transmitted correctly in the request body.


3.1 404 (Not found) Why it might occur:
-The URL points to a nonexistent page or resource.
-The resource may have been moved, deleted, or renamed.
-There could be a mistyped URL.

3.2 403 (Forbidden): What does this tell you about access 
restrictions?
The resource exists, but the client does not have permission to access it.
Access may require:
-Authentication (login/credentials)
-Specific user roles or privileges
-IP whitelisting or token-based authorization
-The server deliberately blocks access even though it knows the resource is there

3.3 Analyse how these errors are communicated in the headers. 
Both the 404 and 403 responses are communicated through the HTTP status line in the headers.
The status code and reason phrase clearly indicate the type of error, while the rest of the
headers confirm that the server processed the request and provided metadata,
even though no content body was sent.
